add auth0 tutorial (#726)
cloudflare/workers-docs: src/content/tutorials/user-auth-with-auth0/_index.md

---
title: 'User Auth with Auth0'
showNew: true
---

> In this tutorial, you'll integrate Auth0, an authentication and authorization provider, into a Cloudflare Workers application. Adding authorization and authentication to an application is a common task for developers, and by implementing it using Cloudflare Workers, you can take advantage of Workers' unique platform advantages to simplify how and when your application needs user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you'll integrate Auth0, an authentication and authorization provider, into a Cloudflare Workers application. Adding authorization and authentication to an application is a common task for developers. By implementing it using Cloudflare Workers, you can take advantage of Workers' unique platform advantages to simplify how and when your application needs user data.
```

## What you'll learn

- How to authorize and authenticate users in Workers
- How to persist authorization credentials inside of Workers KV

> - How to use Auth0 user info inside of your Workers application

Reviewer 2: Great start!

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: (_My comment is regarding the whole **Prerequisites** section_)

```
## Prerequisites

To publish your Worker to Cloudflare, you'll need a few things:

- A Cloudflare account, and access to the API keys for that account
- An Auth0 account
- A Wrangler installation running locally on your machine, and access to the command-line

If you don't have those things quite yet, don't worry. We'll walk through each of them and make sure we're ready to go, before you start creating your application.

You'll need to get your Cloudflare API keys to deploy code to Cloudflare Workers: see ["Finding your Cloudflare API keys"](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#configure) for a brief guide on how to find them.
```

The title of “Prerequisites” feels wrong to me when it also says “If you don't have those things quite yet, don't worry. We'll walk through each of them and make sure we're ready to go, before you start creating your application.”

If it’s truly a prerequisite, then you should have done it before coming, and for each bullet point we should link you to the appropriate place for instructing you how to do those things.

I may have missed something, but afaict it seems that these bullets don’t link anywhere and the content instructing someone how to do these three bullets isn’t contained within the tutorial itself.

If it’s more like a prerequisite to the _meat_ of the tutorial, then I would rename the section something to the effect of “Setup” and link each bullet point to the section below, allowing a reader to skip it if they’ve already done those things. (I understand that this may have been a copy-pasta from other tutorials, but we should use this new tutorial as a model for what we should be doing, and update the prior tutorials if we have a better pattern.)

Finally, the section about getting Cloudflare API keys should be listed in the bulleted list just like the other necessary steps.

------

What I would recommend we do for tutorials in general is that we consolidate this stuff into a separate _tutorial_, called something like “Set up Cloudflare Workers” and we can start tutorials like this one with a link to that.

Author: thanks, this is really good feedback (and a written out version of what i think you sent me in chat before i went on pto, thanks for taking the time to write this out)

the quick start is designed to solve this exact thing, so i'm going to come back and update this section and:

1) require devs to go through the quick start before starting this tutorial
2) make "prerequisites" entirely focus on _external_ stuff you need to figure out: in this case, your auth0 account 

i'll probably still call out specific sections of the quick start later in the tutorial (setting up domains, etc), but copy-pasting this from other tutorials feels like an anti-pattern so will def improve on this. ty!

Author: @adamschwartz took a stab at improving this section - https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-docs/pull/726/commits/1c4736d571f656cb57ab03f288ac097f0232356c - let me know what you think!

To publish your Worker to Cloudflare, you'll need a few things:

- A Cloudflare account, and access to the API keys for that account
- An Auth0 account
- A Wrangler installation running locally on your machine, and access to the command-line

> If you don't have those things quite yet, don't worry. We'll walk through each of them and make sure we're ready to go, before you start creating your application.

Reviewer: You use 2nd person singular "you" here, but the rest of the tutorial uses plural "we"

> You'll need to get your Cloudflare API keys to deploy code to Cloudflare Workers: see ["Finding your Cloudflare API keys"](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#configure) for a brief guide on how to find them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to get your Cloudflare API tokens to deploy code to Cloudflare Workers: see ["Finding your Cloudflare API keys"](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#configure) for a brief guide on how to find them.
```

### Configure an Auth0 application

Every Auth0 account contains _applications_, which allow developers to create login/signup flows that are verified by Auth0. Integrating Auth0 with Workers requires creating an application in your Auth0 dashboard; if you've created an account for this tutorial, the "Default (Generic)" application provided by Auth0 will work, otherwise, create a new application with the type "Regular Web Application".

> ![Creating an application](/tutorials/user-auth-with-auth0/media/creating-an-application.png)

Reviewer 2: Let’s change alt text to "Creating an Auth0 application" for clarity.

> Inside of your application's settings, the client ID and client secret are keys that we'll provide to our Workers application in order to authenticate with Auth0. There are a number of settings and configuration options here, but relevant to this tutorial are the "Allowed Callback URLs" and "Allowed Web Origins" options -- in the "Publish" section of this tutorial, we'll fill in these values with the final deployed URL of our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of your application's settings, the client ID and client secret are keys that we'll provide to our Workers application in order to authenticate with Auth0. There are a number of settings and configuration options here, but relevant to this tutorial are the "Allowed Callback URLs" and "Allowed Web Origins" options. In the "Publish" section of this tutorial, we'll fill in these values with the final deployed URL of our application.
```

## Generate a new project

Using wrangler's `generate` command, we can begin building a new application using templates provided by the Workers team. For this tutorial, we'll heavily modify the default template for [Workers Sites](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/sites), which deploys a static HTML application:

```sh
$ wrangler generate --site my-auth-example
```

## Building an authorizer

> Before we begin implementing an "authorizer" in our application, which will verify that a user is logged in, it's useful to understand how Auth0's login flow works. The condensed version of this flow is below (and, if you're interested, you can [read a longer writeup in Auth0's docs](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/auth-code)):

Reviewer 2: This is great!

1. A user makes a request to the Workers application
2. If they aren't logged in, they're redirected to the login page
3. After logging in, they're redirected back to the Workers application, passing a login `code` as a query param
4. The Workers application takes the login `code` parameter, and exchanges it with Auth0 for authorization tokens

In a traditional application that is attached to a database, the authorization tokens returned from Auth0 are often persisted in a database, allowing users to return to the application and continue to use it, without the need for re-authorization. With a Workers application, we have a quick and easy-to-use data storage solution that lives right next to our serverless application: Workers KV. Using Workers KV, we'll store authorization tokens and tie them to a user using an authorization cookie.

> ![Auth0 Flow](https://cdn2.auth0.com/docs/media/articles/flows/concepts/auth-sequence-auth-code.png)

Reviewer 2: Question: should we be hosting our own images?

### Verifying a user

> Let's begin implementing the login flow described in the previous section. When a user makes a request to the Workers application, we should verify that the user is authenticated. To define this logic, create a new file, `workers-site/auth0.js`, which will contain the authorization/verification logic for our application:

Reviewer 3: I think you can just stick with "authorizing" and "authenticating" rather than also introducing "verifying".  Here, you're `Authenticating a user`.

```js

> // workers-site/auth0.js

Reviewer 2: 👍 This is a great solution for filenames until we have the new design.

To begin, we'll add a new block of code to `handleEvent`, which will parse the request URL, and if the URL path matches `/auth`, we'll call the newly imported `handleRedirect` function from `./auth0`.

```js
// workers-site/index.js
import { authorize, handleRedirect } from './auth0'

async function handleEvent(event) {
  try {
    // END OF REDIRECT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF HANDLE AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK
    if (url.pathname === '/auth') {
      const authorizedResponse = await handleRedirect(event)
    }
    // END OF HANDLE AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES
  }
}
```

The `handleRedirect` function, which we'll export from `workers-site/auth0.js`, will parse the incoming URL, and pass the `code` login parameter to `exchangeCode`:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

export const handleRedirect = async event => {
  const url = new URL(event.request.url)
  const code = url.searchParams.get('code')
  if (code) {

>     return await exchangeCode(code)

Reviewer 3: You probably don't need to `return await` here. `return` should do the trick.

  if (body.error) {
    throw new Error(body.error)
  }

  console.log(body) // { access_token: '...', id_token: '...', ... }
}
```

The `body` object, if it doesn't contain any errors, will contain an `access_token`, `id_token`, and [other fields](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/guides/auth-code/add-login-auth-code#request-tokens) that we should persist inside of Workers KV, a key-value store that we can access inside of our Workers scripts. When we store data inside Workers KV, we need to persist it using a key. The `id_token` field, which is returned by Auth0, is a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) that contains a `sub` field, which is a unique identifier for each user. We'll decode the JSON Web Token, and parse it into an object:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

// https://github.com/pose/webcrypto-jwt/blob/master/workers-site/index.js
const decodeJWT = function(token) {
  var output = token
    .split('.')[1]
    .replace(/-/g, '+')
    .replace(/_/g, '/')
  switch (output.length % 4) {
    case 0:
      break
    case 2:
      output += '=='
      break
    case 3:
      output += '='
      break
    default:
      throw 'Illegal base64url string!'
  }

>   var result = atob(output)

Reviewer: Why using var here and not let?

Author: copy pasted code :)

  try {
    return decodeURIComponent(escape(result))
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(err)
    return result
  }
}

const persistAuth = async exchange => {
  const body = await exchange.json()

  if (body.error) {
    throw new Error(body.error)
  }

  const decoded = JSON.parse(decodeJWT(body.id_token))
}
```

With the decoded JWT available, we can hash-and-salt the `sub` value, and use it as a unique identifier for the current user. To do this, we'll use the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API), which is available inside the Workers runtime. Taking the `SALT` value, a secret that we'll set later in the tutorial as we prepare to publish the project, and combining it with the `sub` value, we'll create a SHA-256 digest of the value, convert it into a valid string, and put the JWT in KV using the encrypted ID as a key:

```js
const persistAuth = async exchange => {

>   // ... previous code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ... 
```

  const text = new TextEncoder().encode(`${SALT}-${decoded.sub}`)
  const digest = await crypto.subtle.digest({ name: 'SHA-256' }, text)
  const digestArray = new Uint8Array(digest)
  const id = btoa(String.fromCharCode.apply(null, digestArray))

  await AUTH_STORE.put(id, JSON.stringify(body))
}
```

> Once the user's authentication data has been stored in KV, we need to associate the user with that data. To do this, we'll set a cookie, setting the value to the encrypted `id` string we just defined.

Reviewer 2: Question: should we always say "Workers KV"?

  date.setDate(date.getDate() + 1)

  const headers = {
    Location: '/',
    'Set-cookie': `${cookieKey}=${id}; HttpOnly; SameSite=Lax; Expires=${date.toUTCString()}`,
  }

  return { headers, status: 302 }
}
```

With our authorization logic defined, we can finally wrap up the corresponding code in `workers-site/index.js`. Knowing that the `handleRedirect` function will pass back an object with `Response` options, we can make a new `Response` object, passing in the information from the existing `response`, and adding the new headers and status code from `handleRedirect`. This will redirect the user to the app's root path, setting a cookie to indicate that they're authorized for future requests:

```js
// workers-site/index.js

async function handleEvent(event) {
  try {
    // BEGINNING OF HANDLE AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK
    if (url.pathname === '/auth') {
      const authorizedResponse = await handleRedirect(event)
      response = new Response(response.body, {
        response,
        ...authorizedResponse,
      })
      return response
    }
    // END OF HANDLE AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES
  }
}
```

## Adding the verify read block

> With our application persisting authentication data in KV, and associating it to the current user via a cookie, we're now prepared to fill out the `verify` function defined earlier in the tutorial. This function will look at the `Cookie` header, and look up the authentication info that we persisted in Workers KV. The tokens saved in Workers KV can be used to make a subrequest to Auth0, which has the benefit of both re-verifying the user, as well as getting some user info, such as name and email address, if they're provided using the user's authentication method of choice.

Reviewer 3: Theres a lot going on conceptually in this last sentence. Could it be simplified a little?

To begin, install the NPM package [`cookie`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie), which we'll use to simplify parsing the `Cookie` header in the `request`:

```sh
$ npm install cookie
```

In `workers-site/auth0.js`, we can begin to flesh out the contents of the `verify` function, beginning by parsing the `Cookie` header, looking for our `cookieKey` as defined earlier in the tutorial:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

import cookie from 'cookie'

const verify = async event => {
  const cookieHeader = event.request.headers.get('Cookie')
  if (cookieHeader && cookieHeader.includes(cookieKey)) {
    const cookies = cookie.parse(cookieHeader)
    if (!cookies[cookieKey]) return {}
    const sub = cookies[cookieKey]
  }
  return {}
}
```

With the unique ID `sub` parsed from the `Cookie` header, we can use it to retrieve the user information we previously stored in KV:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

const verify = async event => {
  const cookieHeader = event.request.headers.get('Cookie')
  if (cookieHeader && cookieHeader.includes(cookieKey)) {
    const cookies = cookie.parse(cookieHeader)
    if (!cookies[cookieKey]) return {}
    const sub = cookies[cookieKey]

>     const kvStored = JSON.parse(await AUTH_STORE.get(sub))

Reviewer 3: Is it safe to assume `JSON.parse` won't throw here?

Reviewer 4: +1 Users always have the ability to modify their cookie, essentially we're trusting their input and hoping that there's an associated entry in KV. I think spitting back a 4xx or sending an error to console if KV doesn't have an entry associated could be a good idea.

```html
<a href="/logout">Log out</a>
```

Note that by design, the placement of the `LOGOUT CODE BLOCK` in `workers-site/index.js` is placed _after_ the `AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK`. This is intentional: it allows users to continue to your application's deployed Workers Site code, meaning that you can provide a corresponding `logout/index.html` template with a "You're logged out!" message, or something similar. When the user refreshes the page, they'll be identified as an unauthorized user, and be redirected to Auth0's login page. For a more advanced implementation of logout functionality, you may choose to _always_ return a redirect to your app's root path: this will force every user to sign in again immediately after logging in:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

export const logout = event => {
  const cookieHeader = event.request.headers.get("Cookie");
  if (cookieHeader && cookieHeader.includes(cookieKey)) {
    return {
      headers: {
        "Location": "/"
        "Set-cookie": `${cookieKey}="";`
      },
      status: 302
    };
  }
  return {};
};
```

### Improvements and customizations

> This tutorial provides a good starting point for understanding and implementing authentication in Workers, using Auth0. There's a number of customizations and improvements that can be done to this codebase that are out-of-scope for the purposes of this tutorial, but will be briefly mentioned in this section, along with links to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial introduces concepts for implementing authentication in Workers using Auth0. There's a number of potential customizations and improvements to this codebase that are out-of-scope for the purposes of this tutorial. I will briefly mentioned a few in this section along with links to learn more.
```

#### Deploying to origin/originless

While this tutorial assumes that you're deploying a Workers Sites application, you may want to put this authorization logic in front of an existing domain. This concept, known as deploying to an "origin", is in contrast to the "originless" deploy, where your Workers deployment _is_ the final destination for any requests from users of your application.

The next section of this tutorial, "Publish", assumes deployment to Workers' built-in deployment target, `workers.dev`, but if you want to handle deploying to an existing domain, known commonly as a "zone", you'll need to do the following things:

1. Update the `handleEvent` function to make a request to your origin

While we're currently using Workers Sites, you can update `workers-site/index.js` and replace the Workers Site code with a request to your origin:

```js
// workers-site/index.js

async function handleEvent(event) {
  try {
    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES

>     // ^- this can now be thought of as "BEGINNING OF ORIGIN REQUEST"

Reviewer 2: ↳ maybe this instead?

Author: siiiick

  try {
    // END OF WORKERS SITES CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF LOGOUT CODE BLOCK
    if (url.pathname === "/logout") {
      const { headers } = logout(event);
      return headers
        ? new Response(response.body, {
            ...response,
            headers: Object.assign({}, response.headers, headers)
          })
        : Response.redirect(url.origin);
    }
    // END OF LOGOUT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF STATE HYDRATION CODE BLOCK
  }
}
```

In your Workers Site, you can add a "Log out" link, which will send users to the `/logout` route, and clear their auth cookie via the `Set-cookie` header:

```html
<a href="/logout">Log out</a>
```

Note that by design, the placement of the `LOGOUT CODE BLOCK` in `workers-site/index.js` is placed _after_ the `WORKERS SITES CODE BLOCK`. This is intentional: it allows users to continue to your application's deployed Workers Site code, meaning that you can provide a corresponding `logout/index.html` template with a "You're logged out!" message, or something similar. Here's an example you can use:

```html
<!-- public/logout/index.html -->

<h1>You're logged out</h1>
<div><a href="/">Log back in</a></div>
```

> When the user refreshes the page, they'll be identified as an unauthorized user, and be redirected to Auth0's login page. For a more advanced implementation of logout functionality, you may choose to _always_ return a redirect to your app's root path: this will force every user to sign in again immediately after logging in:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When the user refreshes the page, they'll be identified as an unauthorized user, and be redirected to Auth0's login page. For a more advanced implementation of logout functionality, you may choose to _always_ return a redirect to your app's root path: this will force every user to sign in again immediately after logging out:
```

Author: oh duh, thanks!

---
title: 'User Auth with Auth0'
showNew: true
---

> In this tutorial, you'll integrate Auth0, an identity management platform, into a Cloudflare Workers application. Adding authorization and authentication to an application is a common task for developers. By implementing it using Cloudflare Workers, you can take advantage of Workers' unique platform advantages to simplify how and when your application needs user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you'll integrate Auth0, an identity management platform, into a Cloudflare Workers application. Adding authorization and authentication to an application is a common task for developers. By implementing it using Cloudflare Workers, you can take advantage of Workers' unique platform advantages to simplify how and when your application needs user data.
```

## What you'll learn

- How to authorize and authenticate users in Workers
- How to persist authorization credentials inside of Workers KV
- How to use Auth0 user info inside of your Workers application

## Prerequisites

To publish your Worker to Cloudflare, you'll need a few things:

> - A Cloudflare account, and access to the API keys for that account

Reviewer 6: I believe this needs to be a "paid" account. We should probably call this out or discuss how to work around this.

> - A Cloudflare account, and access to the API keys for that account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Cloudflare account, the [Workers Unlimited Plan](/about/pricing), and access an [API token](/quickstart#api-token) for that account
```

Reviewer: maybe this is wrong I was going off comment above. If listing just two items remove extra comma

- A Wrangler installation running locally on your machine, and access to the command-line
- An Auth0 account

Topics like configuring your Cloudflare account, API keys, and Wrangler installation are covered extensively in the [Workers Quick Start](/quickstart). Completing that guide is mandatory before following this tutorial!

> If you don't already have an Auth0 account, you can sign up for a free account at [auth0.com](https://www.auth0.com). This tutorial doesn't require a paid plan and supports integration with Auth0's free tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't already have an Auth0 account, you can sign up for a free account at [auth0.com](https://www.auth0.com). This tutorial doesn't require a Workers Unlimited plan and supports integration with Auth0's free tier.
```

### Configure an Auth0 application

Every Auth0 account contains _applications_, which allow developers to create login/signup flows that are verified by Auth0. Integrating Auth0 with Workers requires creating an application in your Auth0 dashboard; if you've created an account for this tutorial, the "Default (Generic)" application provided by Auth0 will work; otherwise, create a new application with the type "Regular Web Application".

![Creating an Auth0 application](/tutorials/user-auth-with-auth0/media/creating-an-application.png)

> Inside of your application's settings, the client ID and client secret are keys that we'll provide to our Workers application to authenticate with Auth0. There are several settings and configuration options here, but relevant to this tutorial are the "Allowed Callback URLs" and "Allowed Web Origins" options. In the "Publish" section of this tutorial, we'll fill in these values with the final deployed URL of our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of our application's settings, the client ID and client secret are keys that we'll provide to our Workers application to authenticate with Auth0. There are several settings and configuration options here, but relevant to this tutorial are the "Allowed Callback URLs" and "Allowed Web Origins" options. In the "Publish" section of this tutorial, we'll fill in these values with the final deployed URL of our application.
```
Sound try to be consistent with subject tense

## Generate a new project

Using wrangler's `generate` command, we can begin building a new application using a Workers template. For this tutorial, we'll heavily modify the default template for [Workers Sites](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/sites), which deploys a static HTML application:

```sh
$ wrangler generate --site my-auth-example
```

## Building an authorizer

Before we begin implementing an "authorizer" in our application, which will verify that a user is logged in, it's useful to understand how Auth0's login flow works. The condensed version of this flow is below (and, if you're interested, you can [read a longer writeup in Auth0's docs](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/auth-code)):

1. A user makes a request to the Workers application
2. If they aren't logged in, they're redirected to the login page

> 3. After logging in, they're redirected back to the Workers application, passing a login `code` as a query param

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After logging in they're redirected back to the Workers application, passing a login `code` as a query param
```

4. The Workers application takes the login `code` parameter and exchanges it with Auth0 for authorization tokens

In a traditional application that is attached to a database, the authorization tokens returned from Auth0 are often persisted in a database, allowing users to return to the application and continue to use it, without the need for re-authorization. With a Workers application, we have a quick and easy-to-use data storage solution that lives right next to our serverless application: Workers KV. Using Workers KV, we'll store authorization tokens and tie them to a user using an authorization cookie.

[![Auth0 Flow](/tutorials/user-auth-with-auth0/media/auth0-flow.png)](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/auth-code)

<small>Auth0 Flow Diagram courtesy of <a href="https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/auth-code">Auth0</a></small>

### Authenticating a user

> Let's begin implementing the login flow described in the previous section. When a user makes a request to the Workers application, we should verify that the user is authenticated. To define this logic, create a new file, `workers-site/auth0.js`, which will contain the authorization logic for our application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's begin implementing the login flow described in the previous section. When a user makes a request to the Workers application, we should verify that the user is authenticated. To define this logic create a new file - `workers-site/auth0.js`- which will contain the authorization logic for our application:
```

const verify = async event => {
  // Verify a user based on an auth cookie and Workers KV data
  return { accessToken: '123' }
}

// Returns an array with the format
//   [authorized, context]
export const authorize = async event => {
  const authorization = await verify(event)
  if (authorization.accessToken) {
    return [true, { authorization }]
  } else {
    return [false, { redirectUrl }]
  }
}
```

The `auth0` object wraps several secrets, which are encrypted values that can be defined and used by your script. In the "Publish" section of this tutorial, we'll define these secrets using the [`wrangler secret`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/tooling/wrangler/secrets/) command.

The `verify` function, which we'll stub out in our first pass through this file, will check for an authorization key and look up a corresponding value in Workers KV. For now, we'll simply return an object with an `accessToken` string, to simulate an _authorized_ request.

The `authorize` function, which should be exported from `./auth0.js`, will wait for the response from the `verify` function, and return an array that can be used to determine how the application should proceed.

> In `workers-site/index.js`, we can import the `authorize` function from `./auth0.js`, and use it inside of our `handleEvent` function. Note that by default, the Workers Sites template contains code for rendering your Workers Site from Workers KV – to keep that code functioning, make sure that you replace `handleEvent` as defined below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `workers-site/index.js`, we can import the `authorize` function from `./auth0.js` and use it inside of our `handleEvent` function. Note that by default the Workers Sites template contains code for rendering our Workers Site from Workers KV. To keep that code functioning make sure that you replace `handleEvent` as defined below:
```

```js
// workers-site/index.js

import { authorize } from './auth0'

async function handleEvent(event) {
  let request = event.request
  let response = new Response(null)
  const url = new URL(request.url)

  try {
    const [authorized, { authorization, redirectUrl }] = await authorize(event)

    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES
    // Make sure to not touch this code for the majority of the tutorial!
    response = getAssetFromKV(event)
    // END OF WORKERS SITES

    return response
  } catch (e) {
    return new Response(e.message || e.toString(), { status: 500 })
  }
}
```

> The `authorize` function returns an array with a boolean `authorized` and a context object, which will contain either an `authorization` object or a `redirectUrl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `authorize` function returns an array with a boolean `authorized` and a context object which will contain either an `authorization` object or a `redirectUrl`.
```

> Building on the past code sample, we can check that a user is `authorized` and that the `authorization` object contains an `accessToken`, and update the incoming `request` to contain an `Authorization` header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the past code sample, we can check that a user is `authorized` and that the `authorization` object contains an `accessToken`. Then update the incoming `request` to contain an `Authorization` header:
```

```js
// workers-site/index.js

async function handleEvent(event) {
  try {
    const [authorized, { authorization, redirectUrl }] = await authorize(event)
    if (authorized && authorization.accessToken) {
      request = new Request(request, {
        headers: {
          Authorization: `Bearer ${authorization.accessToken}`,
        },
      })
    }
    // END OF AUTHORIZATION CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES
  }
}
```

If a user isn't authorized, we can redirect them to Auth0's login page, by calling `Response.redirect`, passing in the `redirectUrl`:

```js
async function handleEvent(event) {
  try {
    const [authorized, { authorization, redirectUrl }] = await authorize(event)
    // END OF AUTHORIZATION CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF REDIRECT CODE BLOCK
    if (!authorized) {
      return Response.redirect(redirectUrl)
    }
    // END OF REDIRECT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF WORKERS SITES
  }
}
```

> When a user logs in via Auth0's login form, they'll be redirected back to the callback URL specified by your application. In the next section, we'll handle that redirect, and get a user access token as part of the "login" code flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user logs in via Auth0's login form, they'll be redirected back to the callback URL specified by our application. In the next section, we'll handle that redirect, and get a user access token as part of the "login" code flow.
```

    }
    // END OF HANDLE AUTH REDIRECT CODE BLOCK

    // BEGINNING OF REDIRECT CODE BLOCK
  }
}
```

The `handleRedirect` function, which we'll export from `workers-site/auth0.js`, will parse the incoming URL, and pass the `code` login parameter to `exchangeCode`:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

export const handleRedirect = async event => {
  const url = new URL(event.request.url)
  const code = url.searchParams.get('code')
  if (code) {
    return exchangeCode(code)
  }
  return {}
}
```

Let's define `exchangeCode`, which will take the `code` parameter, and make a request back to Auth0, exchanging it for an access token:

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js
const exchangeCode = async code => {
  const body = JSON.stringify({
    grant_type: 'authorization_code',
    client_id: auth0.clientId,
    client_secret: auth0.clientSecret,
    code,
    redirect_uri: auth0.callbackUrl,
  })

  // We'll define persistAuth in the next section
  return persistAuth(
    await fetch(AUTH0_DOMAIN + '/oauth/token', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: { 'content-type': 'application/json' },
      body,
    })
  )
}
```

### Persisting authorization data in Workers KV

> The `persistAuth` function, which we'll define next, will handle the request and parse the appropriate authorization info from it. Let's begin by parsing the JSON body returned back from Auth0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we'll define the `persistAuth` function to handle the request and parse the appropriate authorization info from it. Let's begin by parsing the JSON body returned back from Auth0:
```

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

const persistAuth = async exchange => {
  const body = await exchange.json()

  if (body.error) {
    throw new Error(body.error)
  }

  console.log(body) // { access_token: '...', id_token: '...', ... }
}
```

> The `body` object, if it doesn't contain any errors, will contain an `access_token`, `id_token`, and [other fields](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/guides/auth-code/add-login-auth-code#request-tokens) that we should persist inside of Workers KV, a key-value store that we can access inside of our Workers scripts. When we store data inside Workers KV, we need to persist it using a key. The `id_token` field, which is returned by Auth0, is a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) that contains a `sub` field, which is a unique identifier for each user. We'll decode the JSON Web Token, and parse it into an object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `body` object - assuming no errors -  will contain an `access_token`, `id_token`, and [other fields](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/guides/auth-code/add-login-auth-code#request-tokens) that we should persist inside of Workers KV, a key-value store that we can access inside of our Workers scripts. When we store data inside Workers KV we need to persist it using a key. The `id_token` field, which is returned by Auth0, is a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) that contains a `sub` field, a unique identifier for each user. We'll decode the JSON Web Token and parse it into an object:
```

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

// https://github.com/pose/webcrypto-jwt/blob/master/workers-site/index.js
const decodeJWT = function(token) {
  var output = token
    .split('.')[1]
    .replace(/-/g, '+')
    .replace(/_/g, '/')
  switch (output.length % 4) {
    case 0:
      break
    case 2:
      output += '=='
      break
    case 3:
      output += '='
      break
    default:
      throw 'Illegal base64url string!'
  }

  const result = atob(output)

  try {
    return decodeURIComponent(escape(result))
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(err)
    return result
  }
}

const persistAuth = async exchange => {
  const body = await exchange.json()

  if (body.error) {
    throw new Error(body.error)
  }

  const decoded = JSON.parse(decodeJWT(body.id_token))
}
```

> With the decoded JWT available, we can hash and salt the `sub` value, and use it as a unique identifier for the current user. To do this, we'll use the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API), which is available inside the Workers runtime. We'll combine the `SALT` value, a secret that we'll set later in the tutorial, with the `sub` value. By creating a SHA-256 digest of these combined strings, we can then use it as the key for storing the user's JWT in Workers KV:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the decoded JWT available, we can hash and salt the `sub` value,and use it as a unique identifier for the current user. To do this, we'll use the [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API), which is available inside the Workers runtime. We'll combine the `SALT` value, a secret that we'll set later in the tutorial, with the `sub` value. By creating a SHA-256 digest of these combined strings, we can then use it as the key for storing the user's JWT in Workers KV:
```

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

const userInfoUrl = `${auth0.domain}/userInfo`

const verify = async event => {
  const cookieHeader = event.request.headers.get('Cookie')
  if (cookieHeader && cookieHeader.includes(cookieKey)) {
    const cookies = cookie.parse(cookieHeader)
    if (!cookies[cookieKey]) return {}
    const sub = cookies[cookieKey]

    const kvData = await AUTH_STORE.get(sub)
    if (!kvData) {
      throw new Error('Unable to find authorization data')
    }

    let kvStored
    try {
      kvStored = JSON.parse(kvData)
    } catch (err) {
      throw new Error('Unable to parse auth information from Workers KV')
    }

    const { access_token: accessToken, id_token: idToken } = kvStored
    const decoded = JSON.parse(decodeJWT(idToken))

    const resp = await fetch(userInfoUrl, {
      headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` },
    })
    const json = await resp.json()
    if (decoded.sub !== json.sub) {
      throw new Error('Access token is invalid')
    }
    return { accessToken, idToken, userInfo: json }
  }
  return {}
}
```

> As a recap, this `verify` function, which we defined earlier in the tutorial, will now correctly verify our application's users based on the `Cookie` field, and make any authorization information available as part of the `authorization` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a recap, this `verify` function will now correctly verify our application's users based on the `Cookie` field and make any authorization information available as part of the `authorization` object:
```

```js
// workers-site/auth0.js

export const authorize = async event => {
  const authorization = await verify(event)
  if (authorization.accessToken) {
    return [true, { authorization }]
  } else {
    return [false, { redirectUrl }]
  }
}
```

> By implementing this function, we've now completed the authorization/authentication portion of the tutorial! Our application will authorize any incoming users, redirecting them to Auth0 and verifying their access tokens, before they're allowed to see our Workers Site content. To configure your deployment, and publish the application, you can skip to the "Publish" section, but in the next few portions of the tutorial, we'll focus on some of the more interesting aspects of this project: using user information in our application, via "edge state hydration", logging out our users, and some improvements and customizations that can be done to this application to make it ready for production usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By implementing this function, we've now completed the authorization/authentication portion of the tutorial! Our application will authorize any incoming users, redirecting them to Auth0 and verifying their access tokens before they're allowed to see our Workers Site content. To configure your deployment and publish the application, you can skip to the "Publish" section, but in the next few portions of the tutorial, we'll focus on some of the more interesting aspects of this project: using user information in our application, via "edge state hydration", logging out our users, and some improvements and customizations that can be done to this application to make it ready for production usage.
```

### Publishing your application

With your `wrangler.toml` successfully configured, you can now use wrangler's `publish` command to deploy your application:

```sh
$ wrangler publish
```

Wrangler will compile your code, upload the associated Workers Sites folder (`public`, by default), and begin handling requests sent to your `workers.dev` application, or to your zone. To confirm everything works as expected, you should:

1. Visit your application (e.g. [my-auth-test.signalnerve.workers.dev](https://my-auth-test.signalnerve.workers.dev)), which should redirect you to Auth0's login page
2. Login with an email/password, or if you've enabled Google, Twitter, or other "social" login providers, the login provider of your choice
3. Watch Auth0 redirect you to `/auth`, and then to `/`. Beneath the hood, your Workers application has exchanged a login `code` with Auth0 for an access token, persisted it to Workers KV, and registered you as an authorized user via a cookie.
4. If you see your site, congrats! You've successfully authorized users to your Workers application, using Auth0.

![Example GIF](/tutorials/user-auth-with-auth0/media/example-vid.gif)

## Conclusion

> Congrats! You've successfully built an application that authorizes and authenticates users on the edge, using Cloudflare Workers. To see the final version of the project we built in this tutorial, check it out on GitHub: [signalnerve/workers-auth0-example](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-auth0-example/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congrats! You've successfully built an application that authorizes and authenticates users on the edge using Cloudflare Workers. To see the final version of the project we built in this tutorial, check it out on GitHub: [signalnerve/workers-auth0-example](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-auth0-example/).
```

> There's a lot more that you can build with Workers, whether you want to serve static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, transform HTML responses using HTMLRewriter, and more. Here are some more tutorials for you to check out next: happy coding!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's a lot more that you can build with Workers: serve static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, transform HTML responses using HTMLRewriter, and more. Here are some more tutorials for you to check out next. Happy coding!
```

// workers-site/auth0.js

export const logout = event => {
  const cookieHeader = event.request.headers.get('Cookie')
  if (cookieHeader && cookieHeader.includes(cookieKey)) {
    return {
      headers: {

>         'Set-cookie': `${cookieKey}="";`,

Reviewer 4: Though it seems silly the same cookie directives should be placed here as above (`HttpOnly; SameSite=Lax; Secure;`) to be consistent and ensure there isn't a vector for extracting cookies.

Following this example, the callback URL for my application is `my-auth-test.signalnerve.workers.dev/auth`.

#### Setting the salt

> In order to safely store user IDs (the `sub` value from Auth0), we should always refer to them by an encrypted value, which we can generate using the `crypto.subtle.digest` function in the Web Crypto API. In order to do this, we need to set a _salt_: a secret value that is included in the text we're encrypting.

Reviewer 4: > by an encrypted value

nit: hashing with salt isn't encryption. Encryption means we can take the cipher text and apply a key + a function to go back to the original state. Here with hashing + salt, we're ensuring that the computed text is unique and hard to guess but you can't go back to the original state (unless you have access to KV 😄 )

I would say something along the lines of. 
`In order to safely store user IDs (the `sub` value from Auth0) in the cookie we set in the browser, we should always refer to them by a value that cannot be easily guessed by someone else.`
